---
layout: post
title: Seeing Through Salieri
subtitle: Acceptance
---

>"All men are equal to God's eyes..."<br>"Are they?..."<br>(<i>Amadeus</i>)

This is obviously not true, and everyone knows that it isn't from a young age. The difficulty is in actuatlly accepting the fact. We've created systems to cope with this reality where true meritocracy will never be achieved. It is natural and right for people to discriminate against suboptimal characteristics, yet companies, religions, and nations will try to validate you by telling you that you are enough for whatever you are seeking in life; if politicians are doing this, then you know it's a lie. 

Talent is a good thing; there ARE optimal traits in every facet of life, and it's what makes someone special. Some people are more gifted at certain things than others, and some people aren't even gifted with anything at all. The sports cliché that "hard work beats talent when talent fails to work hard" is an odd ball to me. I wonder if the nonexistent gift of talentless people is actually the gift itself. Usually, talentless people have to work extra hard to get what they want, and since they're already way below the bar they grow the most. 

I used to write "life should get better over time. What an explorer trades off for knowledge is pleasure" on my dorm window. This seems to be more true the more disadvantaged you are in life. Own up to your talentlesness or averageness. You are probably not special, so don't buy into the crap that tells you how special you are. Accept it. There's no other way to be satisfied. 

You are not special. That's why people spend their whole lives finding someone who thinks they are. Even god discriminates through heaven and hell.
