---
layout: post
title: Lovely Leah
---

{: .box-note}
Be yourself.  
Especially, do not feign affection.  
Neither be cynical about love;  
for in the face of all aridity and disenchantment  
it is as perennial as the grass.  
...  
You are a child of the universe,  
no less than the trees and the stars;  
you have a right to be here.  
And whether or not it is clear to you,  
no doubt the universe is unfolding as it should.  

I was going to write a poem or write a blog post to get my thoughts out, but I decided to just write to you directly instead. This is one of the hardest things I've ever done in my life,
and it's really late so please pardon any syntactic mistakes I may make. When we talked a while ago I said I would try harder to be a better boyfriend to you, and I wish I could keep trying,
but I simply do not think I am ready to be in a relationship at this time, especially with you. You have always seemed to know what you wanted, and you made it clear what you wanted in this relationship--something that the two of us would keep pushing forward together through our commitment and love with one another. I cannot continue making you believe I am capable of that right now. I've always told you that I don't want to hurt you, but becase of my cowardice and lack of self-awareness I have. You have tolerated more of my mistakes than you should have, and you deserve better. I'm selfish and am still trying to find what exactly I want the rest of my life to look like, and this combustible combination has led to me hurting people who have given me their tender love and friendship. Thank you for giving me your love and friendship, and I hope we can cross paths again in the future because I will always value you and the time we spent together. I am unsure of what love is, but you have helped me see more of it than I have ever had the chance to see.