---
layout: post
title: Government Bullshit
subtitle: Old people and their BS
comments: true
---

{: .box-note}
just something quick...may try to add more/be more detailed when less emotion is involved

The leaked Supreme Court abortion decision is founded not on precedent nor the law nor any concept of justice but rather on corruption & the flagrant, abuse of power. It would not happen but for serial acts of political violence against the intent & spirit of the Constitution.

It would not have happened were an election not stolen in Bush v. Gore. It would not have happened were an election not stolen in 2016. It would not have happened had Mitch McConnell twisted and perverted the rules of the Senate with this moment as his explicit goal. It would not have happened without denying Barack Obama the ability to appoint a highly qualified nominee, Merrick Garland, to the Supreme Court. It would not have happened without whatever murky deal it was that led to the stepping down on of Justice Kennedy. It would not have happened without the lies that put Brett Kavanaugh on the court. It would not have happened had the GOP done their duty and impeached Donald Trump for his abuses of power. It would not have happened had DoJ prosecuted Trump for the obstruction cited by Mueller. It would not have happened had Coney Barrett not been rushed onto the court after an election, rendering McConnell's so-called objections to Garland hypocritical in the extreme. It would not have happened w/o the seas of dark money right wing organizations invested to get here. It would not have happened without the murky activities of the Federalist Society. It would not have happened without willful lies hidden behind a play of grotesque naïveté of the Susan Collinses of this world. 

It took the acceptance and defense by virtually every member of the GOP of the most corrupt presidency in American history to get to this point. And don't for a minute think that it was not this and related past and future attacks on the rights of voters, gay people, etc. This is why they disgraced their offices. This, as much as anything that happened on January 6th, this decades long campaign to steal the courts, was as much a coup, an attack on our system of government, an attack on the intents of the Founders. 

To defeat it, we must see it for what it is, call it out, condemn it, understand its implications for the future. But we must also learn the lessons of the past few decades. The Trump-McConnell-Federalist-Koch-Putinist GOP will do anything to claim and wield power. They have no conscience. They will not be stopped by the law. They will not be guided by history. The Constitution is a joke to them (and as the alleged Alito opinion suggests to those like him who have hypocritically claimed the role of being its protectors.) 

## to be contiued...maybe...i don't like political shit. i like computers.